79kW battery pack , 281 bhp , 318 Nm of peak torque , AI certified range of 656kms on a single charge range of around 500kms. That said if you visit or visit their website or check their brochure in detail there is a section where they have displayed or they have showed a real world range based on the cities they have tested and Mumbai on the list had a range of 497kms. So how much did we got exactly? Well in a car while a style extensive range test we have extracted 462.6kms on a single charge until the car was completely dead and we had to push it to the charging station. Well for a car of this size and 2.2 tons well that is quite impressive roughly around 70% The ventilated seats were constantly used and in Mumbai the traffic is decent there. There have been patches where the car didn't move at all it was stanched still. For a long period of time there were many signals when traffic jam sat we witnessed over our run. But still the car manages to give us 462.6kms on a full charge that's impressive. The first pro itself is the ride and handling and the overall driving dynamics of this car. Well the Mahindra XCV90 uses pen-telling independent suspension with semi-active dampers. What does that mean in real life well excellent high speed stability that could c excellent ride quality and also a level of comfort you won't expect out of a car of this size. Even with the 19 inch wheels wrapped around 245 F55 profile tires, it ions out most of the bumps and there's no drama of moving around. Even the body roll is well controlled I mean it is not perfect but you won't feel flirty or disconnected at any point of time. Now you won't call it a joil it has 2.2 tons but it feels planted and confident while on expressways especially during our high wearings. That's where the main talking point over here is the steering wheel. Well this is by far the best two spoke implementation in any car of a two spoke steering wheel I have ever seen. There is no cheap plastic it doesn't feel cheap at all there's no panel gaps. The buttons are tactile very clear very a selfie camera with filters a storage where you can store your phone charge your phone while let's see along with two types of charging ports. But what's really still the show is the light show you can make the card dance according to your music and that will also reflect on the roof. Well it gets a panoramic glass roof with invent light build into it into mine. There are logos it close it pulses and really looks absolutely stunning. There is a setting called V8 tribute that if you turn on that you can literally emulate the sound the exhaust note and the engine grant of a V8 engine. Do you want to listen to that? Check this out. I love that personally and I think you are going to love it too. I drive it in this mode by default in any modes I'm trying to win. And while on test on highways I use this and it really made me feel that I'm driving a very powerful car. In fact it is powerful but a more like a nice engine car a V8 car. he space inside is excellent but about the design. I really like how the fascia look it is subtle yet aggressive. Like the LED DRS headlamp also one thing to note the one design element that really stood out for me are the gloss black elements compared to the plasticy looking matte black finish. You get the same finish on the cloudings on the ORVM and also on the roof. And that is really adding to the character of this car. Now I was testing this car for 3 to 4 days for the range test and during my run a lot of people stood by ask me which car is this because of the logo because of the design it looks so futuristic. People thought it is some new brand because not a lot of people recognize the new Mahindra Infinity but apply logo. Well one of the most important USB of the Mahindra XCV9E is the storage spaces and talking about that it gets a power tailgate w ith a boot capacity of 663 liters. That is absolutely humongous as you can see you can really move your house around with this one. Well not just a massive boot space the Mahindra XCV9E also has a huge Frankstory space of about 150 liters which is actually double the size of the Tata Harrier EV. Well you can show couple of bags even your charger can fit in here. Well you can show couple of bags even your charger can fit in here. Also one plus point over here is hydraulic struts for easy access. Well now on to the next row and that is the triple screen layout of the Mahindra XCV9E. Yes you get two screens for a core driver and driver and one instrument panel. Now these screens are very detailed very crisp and have all the information laid out very precisely. They are plenty bright no issues outdoor but most important they are very responsive. It is all thanks to the snapdragon SOC that works behind the scene and makes this software very fluid to use. As I mentioned it is very responsiv e both the screens they share similar platform you can watch YouTube videos, you can watch carwale videos and hit the subscribe button from here as well. So I will recommend doing that also you can listen to the music but most importantly what adds to the premium experience is the 1600 watts 16 speakers set up by Harmon Carden. And it is a no joke it is tuned by Dolby Admos and the overall experience it just cinema I mean listen to this. But it's not all praises there are cons that I would like to address on my personal usage over three or four days. Well first of all these seats definitely are comfortable but they lack under thigh support. Also the driver seat is power adjustable but the core driver seat misses out on that function it is manually adjustable. So I believe that is a major con it should have been a powered core driver seat as well. Apart from that the upholstery is white so again as I mentioned it might get dirty over the time. One thing I noticed the dashboard layout is amazing the color palette is absolutely stunning the white upholstery the white interior is but what I think this part the dashboard color on the dashboard it is somewhat not enough fancier for this car it might suit the B6 but this look a bit dull. I believe this should have been something else either a white finish could have worked better than this. Also other features that I think it misses out on one is the digital IRVM well it is a coupé SUV and you know when there's a coupé SUV the real visibility takes a hit and even this car has adjustable headrest for all the passengers at the back that means the center headrest real ly block on hinders the view . I believe a digital IRVM would have made more sense as the competition like Tata Harrier EV now also gets that said I feel Mahindra should add this in future updates digital IRVM. Also it doesn't get an all-wheel drive system which is a major miss because it's competitor again the newly launched Harrier EV has won that is also price 1.5 agro piece cheaper than the top spec real-wheel drive XCV90. So with the real-world driving range of approximately 460 to 480 km the Mahindra XEV90 is a very practical option. I mean if you are daily commuters approximately around 30 to 50 km you can actually pull off a week and get away with this one and still have some charge left for your next Monday. Now for the price 30.50 like the factory variant really packs a lot of features there's auto-parker system strippers being layout so yes it is practical it has feature rich. Also when compared to its direct rival the Tata Harrier EV it has an advantage of all-wheel drive t ech . Also when compared to its direct rival the Tata Harrier EV it has an advantage of all-wheel drive tech. So let us know in the comments will you pick the Mahindra XEV90 over the Tata Harrier EV also let us know can you use an EV of approximately 450 to 460 km real driving range as your only primary car in your garage let us know.